["If I Had A Heart" playing]
Bjorn Ironside.
King Harald.
Queen Gunnhild.
I don't know you.
Should I?
My name is Ingrid,
King Harald.
She is my wife...
-also.
-Your wife?
I have been persuaded that
we are in imminent danger
of an attack by the Rus...
whoever, whatever they are.
In which case,
we must prepare ourselves.
And if we are prepared,
no doubt we will
repel those foreign forces.
[Erik] I know your reputation.
I know how many battles
you have won,
but, still,
you have no idea
what you are now facing.
What we are now facing.
Which is?
The twilight of the gods.
The end of everything.
[chuckles]
People always say
it's the end of everything.
Yes, but they
don't usually mean it.
King Harald.
You are the king of all Norway
and you have spent
a lifetime achieving it.
Now, you must
justify your position.
The gods are asking you,
how will you defend them
against the might
of the Christian Rus?
And now you must answer them.
[Bjorn] I have to assume
that the Rus
will attack from the sea.
And if we are correct,
and they are going
to attack our capital,
then this is where
they will be heading for.
[Erik] They could land
anywhere along the coast
and attack us over ground.
[Bjorn] But not
if we assume they have
a huge number of ships.
There are only a few places
you can safely disembark
that many warriors,
and this here is one of them.
We will block the entrance
leading into the fjord here,
and we will lay a boom across
the mouth of the river here,
so Ivar cannot crush us
in a pincer movement.
[Gunnhild] I understand
that we can fortify
the beach here,
and lay booms
and other obstacles
across the mouths
of the rivers.
But we still have to accept
that a large part
of their army
will manage to come ashore.
How are we to repel
such a huge force?
Harald has summoned all his
vassal Kings and warriors
to come to our aid.
Do you think
they will come?
The other Kings?
I don't.
[Ivar] We leave in spring.
Are you...
ready to return to Norway?
Are you ready
to fight against Bjorn,
with me and the Rus?
[Hvitserk] I see now that,
a lot of my life,
I have fought
against my fate.
But now I'm resigned.
Resigned? To what?
I have committed myself
to the destructive element.
[chuckles softly]
[exhales]
[softly] Don't.
[Ivar exhales]
[kissing]
[hesitatingly] I can't...
[gasps]
You know I can't.
[whispers] Of course, you can.
No.
[Viking 1]
Leave them with the arrows,
farther up the shore!
[Thorkell]
An extraordinary sight,
Bjorn Ironside.
[Viking 2] Give me
that hammer! Quick!
[Bjorn] We are grateful that
you and your warriors
have come to join us,
Jarl Thorkell.
[softly] Aye.
Our country
is in grave danger.
Let me ask you,
where are your brothers?
Herring? Earl Sigvald?
Why aren't they here?
Not to mention
Jarl Hrolf and King Hakon
and everyone else
who voted for King Harald.
They are free people.
[sighs]
You know that is
the way with us.
And if they choose
not to come,
then so be it.
I don't agree!
They should be here
helping us prepare
for the invasion of the Rus!
Nothing else matters.
[Viking shouting indistinctly]
[hammering]
[breathing heavily]
[Erik] You don't
have to do this.
You're going to have a baby.
I'm going to have
a Norwegian baby.
Not a Rus baby!
Do you understand that?
[breathing heavily]
So, you're saying
your archers aren't enough.
Bjorn Ironside,
we have some misgivings.
Who doesn't, being human?
[chuckles]
This is serious.
We have concerns
that our defenses are being
stretched too wide
and that you are
trying too hard
to second-guess
the points of attack.
We know my brother Ivar
is with them.
I'm only trying to anticipate
what he's going to do.
I know him very well.
But if you
misread his intentions--
Then we are defeated!
What are you saying?
Don't you understand
that they are going to attack
in overwhelming numbers?
Yes.
If you have a better plan...
I didn't think so.
[Viking] Tie it down
or the wind will take it!
[indistinct shouting]
[Harald]
So, you are Bjorn's wife?
Yes.
You don't have
much of a chance.
What does that mean?
[Harald]
You're the second wife.
Second wives
don't matter very much.
They are an afterthought.
And Gunnhild is pregnant
with his child.
What do you want
to say to me?
I want to say to you
what you already know.
You're in love with Bjorn.
[chuckles] Maybe.
But I recognize
something in you.
You're ambitious.
But Bjorn is not the King.
I am married to Bjorn.
Bjorn is my destiny.
How can you guess
your destiny?
If you want,
and if you are truly ambitious,
I will make you Queen
of all Norway.
You don't know me.
I'm sure I would enjoy
getting to know you.
[chuckles]
So, we have just met
and already you want me
to betray my husband.
The best fruit
is always forbidden.
I'm only asking you
to think about my suggestion.
[clicks tongue]
[Viking] Heave!
[Gunnhild grunts]
[breathing heavily]
[groans]
[screams]
[Erik] Gunnhild?
Ah! My baby! My baby!
[crying hysterically]
My baby!
[screams]
[Gunnhild] It was a boy.
Of course.
I'm sorry.
I know it is what you wanted,
so I am sorry, too.
But it is the judgment
of the gods.
Perhaps I am not meant
to have a child with you.
Don't say that.
We will have children.
[Gunnhild] Perhaps Ingrid
will give you a son.
[Bjorn] I wanted our son.
I want only
what is best for you, Gunnhild.
I admire you
more than I can say.
I also weep
for your dead son.
Thank you.
[sighs]
This is a sad day.
We lost a child.
But it would be far worse
to lose a country.
That should be
all our care now.
[Ingrid] And it is
your care, Bjorn.
You are the true King.
You know that.
You are the true King
of Norway.
[indistinct talking]
[Katia] I hope
you haven't forgotten.
I don't usually
do such things.
I risked my life.
You do know that, don't you?
[Ivar] And I don't know why.
You told me that
we knew each other before.
In an earlier life.
But you did not believe me.
I was afraid.
But such things can happen.
In our religion,
we believe that.
Life is ultimately unknowable.
I was contacted recently
by someone I love very much.
A dear friend
of my mother's.
She gave me
some very good news.
She told me that Prince Dir
was alive and well...
thanks to you.
You helped him escape, no?
How would I know such things
if I were not on his side?
I do not love Oleg.
Surely you know that?
I gave myself to you.
I risked everything.
Now, why would I have
done that if I were
happy in my marriage?
I'm not happy in my marriage.
I'm looking for an escape.
We need to talk
some more, Katia.
Thank you for being honest.
I think I'm falling in love
with you.
And I don't even know
who you are.
What did she say?
I'm not sure.
[birds chirping]
Look, it's spring.
[sobs]
[in Old Norse]
[sobbing]
[indistinct talking]
Bjorn Ironside,
I want to drink to your
beautiful wife, Gunnhild.
I'm so sorry
that you lost your child.
Thank you, King Harald.
[softly] Only Jarl Thorkell
and a few others
have answered
King Harald's summons.
It is not enough.
Send word out to the others,
but don't do it
in King Harald's name.
Do it in my name.
Do it quickly.
When do you suppose
the Rus will attack?
It wouldn't surprise me
if they were already at sea.
[Harald] Isn't she beautiful?
Don't you agree, Olaf?
That may be.
But such things
mean nothing now.
You already see the gray hair,
the balding scalp,
and the grinning skull beneath.
Bjorn is married to
the strongest,
most beautiful,
most fascinating
shield-maiden in the world.
And I don't understand why
he has to take another wife.
Why he has to take
everything for himself.
Well, perhaps because he can.
[Harald] Let her go.
Don't hurt her. Let her go.
You stay.
[sighs]
What do you want?
You.
[sniffs]
[sighs]
What are you afraid of?
You.
[exhales]
I want to go.
-You have to let me go.
-I don't have to do anything.
I'm the King.
[whispers] If Bjorn
finds out...
He won't find out.
You won't tell him.
It will be our secret.
And if the Rus attack,
then either Bjorn or I,
or probably both of us,
will die.
And if I die,
our secret goes to the grave.
And if Bjorn dies,
I promise to marry you
and make you
Queen of all Norway.
Then let's wait.
See what happens.
What the gods have in store.
No. I'm tired of waiting
for the gods.
They never listen.
I want you now.
[grunting]
[grunts]
[breathing heavily]
-To hell with Bjorn.
-[sobs]
Go on, then. Do it!
[Bjorn] Are we ready?
I'll go check
on the other defenses.
[Erik] I see something.
[Bjorn] Perhaps it is
King Hakon
or one of the others.
No.
This is it.
We will meet again, husband.
[exhales]
[horn blowing]
[man calling out]
[seagulls squawking]
[sings in Old Norse]
[Ivar] This is where
we will attack.
Here is the mouth of the river
leading into Harald's capital.
No doubt Bjorn will block it.
As well as planning
other surprises.
The famous Bjorn Ironside.
Are you certain
he'll be there?
[Ivar] Yes.
I can assure you,
beyond any doubt,
that our brother will be there.
So, we should
attack the beach.
Won't they expect that?
Of course they will. Yes.
But they will not
expect us to know
that the beach shelves
steeply and quickly,
and that our ships
will capsize
if they get too close.
Which is why
we will bring
these smaller barges with us,
transfer our warriors
into them and simply...
-[clamoring]
-[horse neighing]
Storm the beach.
[man calling out]
What are they doing?
What I expected.
It seems the gods brought us
together again, my brother.
They must enjoy
seeing us fight.
I don't blame them.
I enjoy it, too.
You cannot speak
for the gods.
Only for yourself.
If you say so, Bjorn.
After all,
you're my elder brother.
You know better.
I know better than
to attack my own people
with a Christian army.
I like being
on the winning side.
[Bjorn] If you
betray our gods,
then you also
betray our father.
Our father chose me
above all of you.
That is not true.
He asked me first
to go with him to Wessex.
And then he asked Hvitserk
and then Sigurd.
It was only after
we all refused
that he turned to you.
He knew.
He knew that
you would all refuse him.
He knew that you would all...
disown him.
He knew that
I would be the only one
to remain loyal.
[Bjorn] We all loved him.
None of us wanted
to accompany him
on a journey to his death.
We were more interested
in preserving his legacy,
which is what we have done.
His real legacy...
is safe with me.
If you really believe
that our father's legacy
is to defeat our gods...
then you are wrong, Ivar.
And I'll prove it.
[all shouting]
Charge!
[all clamoring]
[Viking] Loose!
[arrows whizzing]
Loose!
[shouting continues]
[Viking] Loose!
Loose! Loose!
[indistinct shouting]
[swords clanging]
[grunting]
Attack!
[man shouting commands]
[horse neighs]
Stand up and fight! Fight!
Loose! Loose!
Oh, my poor child.
Oh. Oh, my poor child.
-[sobs]
-My poor child.
Poor child.
Oh, my poor child.
-[sobbing]
-Weep.
Weep for all of us.
My poor child.
Weep for our ruin.
[sobbing]
Oh, my poor thing.
My poor baby.
Why can't we attack there?
That river leads
into the mountains.
It's an impossible barrier.
Vikings! Prepare to fight!
[shouting indistinctly]
Loose!
[shouting]
[Oleg shouts in Russian]
[in English] Loose!
[man shouting commands]
[Oleg shouts in Russian]
To the barricades!
Row! Don't stop!
[horn blowing]
Go!
[indistinct shouting]
Loose! Loose!
[laughing]
[shouts in Russian]
Watch the left flank!
[man shouting indistinctly]
[Rus captain] Break through!
[screams]
[Vikings] Stop them! Stop them!
[Viking 1] On to the barricade!
[Viking 2]
Aim at the one in front!
[grunting]
[Viking 3] Target the oarsmen!
The oarsmen!
[all shouting]
[cheering]
[shield-maiden]
Shoot the captain!
That one!
[Viking]
Target the lead ship! Loose!
[screams]
[Ivar] Forward!
[exhales]
[breathes shakily]
[clamoring]
[indistinct shouting]
Get down!
[grunting]
[man shouting]
-Loose!
-[indistinct shouting]
[shouting in Russian]
[Ivar] Finish her!
[screams]
[yells]
[screams and groans]
[grunting]
[breathes heavily]
[breathes shakily]
[Ivar]
We will sail up the river...
to here.
And as you can see,
the mountain is
a formidable obstacle,
but we shall climb it.
And on the other side...
is King Harald's
unsuspecting capital.
Are you going
to climb the mountain?
Of course!
How?
Like this!
Rocks!
[grunting]
[indistinct shouting]
[Ivar] Rocks!
[grunting]
[indistinct shouting]
[all shouting]
[in Old Norse]
[shouting]
[all shouting]
-Loose!
-[arrows whizzing]
Loose!
-Release! Release!
-[Viking] Release!
Release!
[yells]
[men groaning]
[shield-maiden] Loose!
[Erik] Loose!
Loose!
[men screaming]
[grunting]
[screaming]
[groans]
[panting]
[growls]
[grunting]
[groans]
[breathing heavily]
Forward!
Forward! With me! With me!
[shouting]
[Bjorn] I have made
many mistakes.
I have failed.
But this time
I will not fail.
I will win.
The gods are with me.
I will defeat you.
You are wrong.
The gods abandoned you
a long time ago, my brother.
There is no way
you can win.
Believe me.
No way you can win.
[grunting]
[breathing heavily]
[groans]
Save yourself, skogarmaor.
Find yourself another home!
Find yourself another home.
[panting]
[shouts in Old Norse]
[breathes heavily]
[all grunting]
[inaudible]
[Bjorn] I will defeat you.
The gods abandoned you
a long time ago, my brother.
There is no way you can win,
believe me.
No way you can win.
[exhales]
[inaudible]
[music playing]